In the previous lesson,
you built simple neural networks by creating tensors with
random values to represent the network's weights and biases.
You can build neural networks this way,
but as you can imagine,
this can be very cumbersome and difficult to do.
Luckily, TensorFlow has a really nice API called Keras
that provides us with an easy way to build large neural networks.
In this lesson, we will see how to build neural networks with TensorFlow and Keras.
As always, we begin by importing the packages we're going to use.
Here we're going to install this version of TensorFlow,
which is currently the latest version of TensorFlow 2.0.
We're also going to be using TensorFlow datasets to load our MNIST data.
TensorFlow datasets also uses a package called tqdm.
So if you're running this notebook in a Udacity workspace,
make sure you run this command to ensure you have the right version of tqdm installed.
Next, we import warnings and set filter warnings to ignore,
and this is just to prevent many warning messages to be printed on the screen.
We're going to be using NumPy for numerical computations and Matplotlib for plotting.
Therefore, we're going to include the magic commands matplotlib inline,
so we can make plots inline.
We're going to configure the back-end figure format to
retina to display high resolution images.
Here we import TensorFlow,
and here we import TensorFlow datasets
We're going to disable the progress bar on TensorFlow datasets,
and again, this is just to remove clutter on our screen.
Next, we import logging and we set the logging level to logging error.
Again, this is just to prevent too many warning messages to be printed on our screen.
Finally, we print the version of TensorFlow,
the version of Keras,
and whether we're using a GPU or not.
As you can see right now we're not using a GPU,
so we're running all the computations on a CPU.
We will talk more about GPUs in a later lesson.
We're now ready to load our dataset.
In this lesson, we're going to be using the MNIST dataset.
The MNIST dataset consists of grayscale images of handwritten digits.
Each image in this data set is 28 by 28 pixels,
and we can see examples of them right here.
Our goal in this lesson is to build a neural network that can
take any of these images and predict the digit shown in the image.
We're going to be using TensorFlow datasets to load our MNIST data.
TensorFlow datasets is a repository with
a wide variety of datasets to train
your machine learning models for many different tasks,
ranging from text to video.
For a full list of datasets available in TensorFlow datasets,
check out the TensorFlow datasets catalog in this link.
To load our data from TensorFlow datasets, we use tfds.load.
The first argument corresponds to the name of our dataset,
which in this case is MNIST.
The split argument tells TensorFlow dataset which split of the data to return.
Since we're only interested in the training data for now,
we set split equal strain so that we only get the training set.
The next argument as supervised equals true tells
TensorFlow datasets to also return
the corresponding labels of the images in our training set.
These will be used when we train our neural network.
The last argument with info equals true tells
TensorFlow datasets to return some information about the dataset we loaded.
So in this case,
tfds.load will return a training set
that contains images and their corresponding labels as tensors.
It also returns dataset info,
which holds some information about the dataset that we loaded,
such as the number of images and the number of classes.
Now that we have loaded the training data into training set
and loaded dataset information into dataset info,
let's get the total number of classes and the total number of
images in our training set from our dataset info.
Here we get the number of classes and
the total number of training examples from dataset info.
We won't go into the details of how this works now,
we'll cover that in a later lesson.
For now we can see that we have a total of 10 classes in our dataset,
and there are a total of 60,000 images in our training set.
Let's keep exploring our dataset.
We can use the training set as an iterator.
So that means that we can use a for loop to go through the entire dataset.
However, there might be times when you only
want to loop through a few images in your dataset.
For that, we can use the.take method.
The take method only selects the given number of elements from your dataset.
For example,.take(1) will only choose one image from your dataset.
If we had three instead of one here,
then this will take three images from your dataset.
As an example, here we use a for loop that only goes through one image in
our training set and prints out the dtype and shape of the image and corresponding label.
As we can see,
the images in our training set have values of dtype, uint8.
This means that the pixels in our images are represented by
eight bit unsigned integers and can hold values in the range from 0-255.
We also see that our images have shape 28 by 28 by 1.
On the other hand, the labels of our images have dtype, int64.
This means they're 64-bit signed integers.
Now let's see what an image in our dataset looks like.
In order to plot a single image from our training set,
we're again going to use a for loop and we're going to use
a take method to only take one image from our training set.
Remember that the images and labels from our training set are tensors.
Therefore, in order to plot our images,
we first have to convert them to NumPy arrays by using the NumPy method.
Since our images have shape 28 by 28 by 1,
we will use the squeeze method to reshape them to be 28 by 28.
Remember, the squeeze method removes
single-dimensional entries from the shape of an array.
We're also going to convert our label, which is a tensor,
into a NumPy array by using the NumPy method.
Then we plot our image using Matplotlib.
Here we're using a binary color map so that our images are plotted in grayscale.
We're also going to plot a color bar,
and we're also going to print the corresponding label of this image. Here is the result.
As we can see, this image corresponds to a nine.
We also see that the image is 28 by 28,
and then the pixel values in this image range from 0-255.
We also see that the corresponding label of this image is a nine, as it should be.